Now that we had a look at feature modules and shared modules, let's have a look at the third important
module type
you can work with and that would be the core module and of course, let me highlight that all these modules
are created in the same way with NgModule,
just the things you put in there and how we use them differs and that is what I mean with different
module types.
So what's the core module?
The core module is basically there to make the app module a bit leaner, let's say in the app module, we
have the app component
and here we are providing two services.
Well then we can use a core module to move these services out of the app module into the core module
which then in turn is added back to the app module.
The alternative to that would of course be to use provided in in @injectable on the services which
means we don't have to add them to providers at all
but if you do add it to providers in the app module, well then using a core module can be an idea to
again keep your app module leaner.
It's a pattern you see sometimes, not a pattern you absolutely have to follow and indeed, a pattern that
you don't need to use or can't use
if you are using provided in in @injectable which I would recommend using anyways.
But if you do provide your services in providers of your app module, then this is a pattern you
might want to use,
let's have a look at it. In our app module,
if we have a look at the providers, I have the shopping list service and the recipe service there and
my interceptor.
Now the idea behind the core module is that we simply provide all these application-wide services that
are important right from the start of the application, that we provide them in a separate module which
we then simply import into the app module, really just to keep this leaner and to have a way or a place
where we can quickly see all the core services of this application.
Now as I mentioned, this does only make sense or is only a pattern you may use if you are providing a
service like this, by adding its type to the providers array.
If you are providing a service, like we're doing it for the data storage service, where we pass this object
to @injectable, where we set provided in root, then this service is also provided application-wide
and you can't and shouldn't add it to providers of the app module and this is indeed the approach I
would recommend taking,
I would not provide services in the app module,
I would instead provide them application-wide like this.
The effect is the same but it keeps the app module cleaner and leaner automatically.
Still, for some things like the interceptors, you have no alternative,
you have to add them to providers
and here for demo purposes, I also add shopping list service and recipes service.
Then we can add a core.module.ts file where we export the core module and that again
is just a regular module with NgModule like this and NgModule
as before now needs to be imported,
so NgModule from @angular/core. Now here in NgModule, you add providers, this providers array
and there, you simply add the providers you had in your app module, like this.
Now of course for this to work, you need to make sure you're importing all the things that you use in
here,
so I can grab these imports from the app module, we're in the end talking about the shopping list service,
the recipe service and the auth interceptor service,
I'll cut them from the app module and move them here into the core module, import path is the same because
the core module file is right next to the app module file and I also need the HttpInterceptor, so
I can cut them from here and instead use that here, add it here to the core module, import HttpInterceptor
from @angular/common/http.
So now the core module here is prepared, you don't need to export your services because services work
differently than declarations, only declarations and other modules need to be exported, services are automatically
injected on a root level, you don't need to export them to make this happen.
So services are simply an exception and therefore now the app module,
the only thing we have to do is we have to import our core module, even though it's not exporting anything
but to still include it here into our build process and we import it from our core.module file. With
that set up,
the application restarts and you should still have the same functionality as before. I can fetch my
my recipes here,
let's try deleting a recipe which will use the recipe service behind the scenes,
let's test something here for my shopping list,
this all still works,
so all these services still work
but now we have them in the core module which is our go to place to quickly see our root application
services
and we have a leaner app module, without a providers array.
But as I mentioned a) this is optional and b) this is only required if you provide a service here instead
of providing it through @injectable which would be my recommendation to use whenever possible.